Why do some automotive aftermarket products
start trends?
What is it that sets them apart?
Magnum Bumpers by ICI are known for style,
innovative design and uncompromised quality
in manufacturing.
Magnum is the fastest growing brand of premium
custom bumpers in the USA!
We’ll show you what sets Magnum Bumpers
apart from the rest and why YOU should choose
a Magnum Bumper for your truck.
Our skilled team of engineers begins the process
of creating a new product by asking ‘how
can we be different?
What would we want if it were our truck?
What are customers asking for?’
An example is the way we designed our rear
bumper so customers can easily transfer rear
sensors from the factory bumper, into their
new Magnum bumper.
This feature yields a precise fit, and, more
importantly, it resolved customer concerns
regarding ease of installation.
Once the design and engineering phases are
complete, our engineering and production teams
meet to discuss how to manufacture the bumper.
Production begins with the finest material
that will provide the best possible surface
quality: premium heavy-duty, cold rolled steel.
Design files are sent electronically to the
plasma cutter, ensuring each component is
cut precisely for a perfect fit.
We bend and form the steel because our engineers
have specifically designed our bumpers to
minimize the amount of seam welding required.
This provides more stability and structural
integrity in the finished bumper.
Magnum Bumpers are designed around the truck
body to fit just like the original factory
bumper.
Welding is the next step.
Then we measure.
For quality and consistency in manufacturing,
each member of our production team uses their
company issued tablet to verify the bumper
measurements are accurate.
The next stage is the finishing process!
Magnum Bumpers are hand finished by the finest
metal fabricators in the industry.
Their attention to quality and detail is second
to none!
Each bumper is measured and cross measured
once more.
Preparing the bumper for powder coating is
a two-step process.
Before the bumper is assembled, each individual
steel component passes through a surfacing
machine.
Then, once assembled, we sandblast the bumper
to prepare the surface for powder coating,
resulting in a longer lasting, more durable
finish.
This type of attention to detail and quality
is how we offer our industry leading warranty.
After sandblasting, the bumper is ready for
our unique three-stage powder coating process.
To begin, we dip each Magnum Bumper in a cleaning,
degreasing and sealing solution.
This solution reaches the hard-to-access areas
of the bumper and helps pull the primer and
powder into those areas, reducing the potential
for corrosion.
After dipping, the bumpers are stored for
24 hours to ensure that the sealant has properly
cured.
Once cured, we heat each bumper to 400 degrees.
The heat prepares the surface for the primer
and powder coat.
Stage two of the powder coating process is
applying the zinc primer and reheating the
bumper.
This provides more protection against corrosion
and creates a more receptive surface for the
final powder coat.
The third and final stage is applying the
textured powder coating and reheating the
bumper for an hour to cure.
The result is a beautiful, durable, matte
black finish that resists corrosion.
The cured, finished bumper is then thoroughly
inspected.
You will notice the Quality Control tag that
accompanied the bumper at each step.
This tag originates when the order for the
bumper is placed.
At each of our Quality Control checkpoints,
every employee who has a hand in crafting
your bumper, puts their employee ID on the
tag.
Their mark signifies that they are standing
behind their work!
The bumper is now ready for packaging.
Our team inspects the final result and ensures
that all measurements meet our standards,
and that the correct brackets and hardware
are included for installation.
To reduce the risk of freight damage, we ship
each Magnum bumper in a custom built wooden
crate so the bumpers arrive in perfect condition.
Once again, we go above and beyond!
Now that you’ve seen what goes into the
creation of every Magnum Bumper, who do you
want making the bumpers for your truck?
Isn’t it time you stepped up to Magnum?
www.magnumtruckgear.com